LAWING AND JAWING


by Zora *[Handwritten: (Neale)] Hurston



TIME:          Present

PLACE:         Way cross Georgia

SCENE:         Judge Dunfumy's Court.

PERSONS:       Judge Dunfumy, Officer Simpson and another, Jemima
               Flapcakes, Cliff Mullins, John Barnes, two lawyers,
               a clerk, a pretty girl and her escort.

SETTING:       Usual court-room arrangement, except that there is a
               large red arrow pointing off-stage left, marked
               "To Jail."

ACTION:        At rise everybody is in place except the Judge.
               Suddenly the CLERK looks off-stage right and motions
               for everybody to rise. Enter the JUDGE. He wears a
               black cap and gown and has his gavel in his hand.
               The two POLICEMEN walk behind him holding up his gown.
               He mounts the bench and glares all about him before he
               seats himself. There is a PRETTY GIRL in the front row
               left, and he takes a good look at her, smiles, frowns
               at her escort. He motions the police to leave him and
               take their places with the spectators and he then raps
               vigorously with his gavel for order.



JUDGE
Hear! Hear! Court is set! My honor is on de bench. You moufy folks set
up!
                             (He glares at the boy with the pretty girl)
All right, Mr. Whistle-britches, just keep up dat jawing now and see
how much time I'll give you!


BOY
I wasn't talking, your honor.


JUDGE
Well, quit looking so moufy.
                             (to CLERK)
Call de first case. And I warn each and all dat my honor is in bad
humor dis mawnin'. I'd give a canary bird twenty years for peckin'
at a elephant.
                             (to CLERK)
Bring 'em on.


CLERK
                             (Reading)
Cliff Mullins, charged with assault upon his wife with a weapon and
disturbing the peace.
                             (As CLIFF is led to the bar by the
                             officer, the JUDGE glares ferociously
                             at the prisoner. His wife, all
                             bandages, limps up to the bar at the
                             same time.)


JUDGE
So youse one of dese hard-boiled wife-beaters, huh? Just a mean old
woman-Jessie! If I don't lay a hearing on you, God's a gopher! Now what
_made_ you cut such a caper?


CLIFF
Judge, I didn't go hunt her. Saturday night I was down on Dearborn
Street in a nasty ditch *[Handwritten: nasty ditch crossed out in
pencil, (buffet flat)]--


JUDGE
A nasty ditch? *[Handwritten: A nasty ditch crossed out in pencil,
(Buffet flat)]


CLIFF
Aw, at Emma Hayles' house.


JUDGE
Oh, yes. Go on.


CLIFF
Well,
                             (Points thumb at wife)
she come down dere and claim I took her money and she claimed I wuz
spending it on Emma.


CLIFF'S WIFE
And dat's just whut he was doing, too, Judge.


CLIFF
AW, she's tellin' a great big ole Georgia lie, Judge. I wasn't spendin'
no money of her'n.


WOMAN
Yes he was, Judge. There wasn't no money for him to git _but_ mine. He
ain't hit a lick of work since God been to Macon. Know whut he 'lowed
when I worry him 'bout workin'? Says he wouldn't take a job wid de
Careless Love Lumber Company, puttin' out whut make you do me lak you
do, do, do.


JUDGE
So, you goes for a sweet-back, do you?


CLIFF
Naw suh, Judge. I'd be glad to work if I could find a job.


JUDGE
How long you been outa work?


CLIFF
Seventeen years--


JUDGE
Seventeen years?
                             (to woman)
You been takin' keer of dis man for seventeen years?


WOMAN
Naw, but he been so mean to me, it seems lak seventeen
years.


JUDGE
Now you tell me just where he hurt you.


WOMAN
Judge, tell you de truth, I'm hurt all over.
                             (Rubs her buttocks)
Fact is I'm cut.


JUDGE
Did you git cut in de fracas?


WOMAN
                             (feeling the back of her left thigh
                             below her buttocks)
Not in de fracas, Judge--just below it.
                             (She starts to show the JUDGE where
                             she has been cut. He motions to stop
                             her.)


JUDGE
Stop!
                              (to Officer Simpson)
Grab him. Put him in de shade.


CLIFF
Judge, I'm unguilty! I ain't laid de weight of my hand on her in malice.
You got me 'cused of murder and I ain't harmed a child.


JUDGE
Lemme ast _you_ something. Didn't you know dat all de women in dis town
belongs to me? Beat my women and I'll stuff you in jail. 90 years. Take
'im away.
                             (CLIFF is led off to jail. JUDGE looks
                             angrily at the boy who is holding
                             hands with the pretty girl)
You runs me hot and I'm just dyin' to sit on _yo'_ case.
Whut you in here for?


BOY
Nothin'.


JUDGE
Well, whut you doin' in my court, you gater-faced rascal?


BOY
My girl wanted to see whut was goin' on, so I brought
her in.


JUDGE
Oh yeah!
                             (Smiles at GIRL)
She was usin' good sense to come see whut I'm doin', but how come _you_
come in here? You gointer have a hard time gittin' out.


BOY
I ain't done a thing. I ain't never done nothin'. I'm just as clean as a
fish, and he been bathin' all his life.


JUDGE
You ain't done nothin', hunh? Well den youse guilty of vacancy. Grab
'im, Simpson, and search 'im--and if he got any concealed weapons, I'm
gointer give 'im life-time and eight years mo'.
                             (The OFFICER seizes the boy and frisks
                             him. All he finds is a new deck of
                             cards. The JUDGE looks at them in
                             triumph.)
Unh hunh! I knowed it, one of dese skin game jelly-beans. Robbin' hard
workin' men out they money.


BOY
Judge, I ain't used 'em at all. See, dey's brand new.


JUDGE
Well, den youse charged wid totin' concealed cards and attempt to
gamble. Ten years at hard labor. Put him in de dark, Simpson, and throw
de key away.
                             (He looks at the girl and beams.)
Don't you worry bout how you gointer git home. You gointer be took home
right, 'cause I'm gointer take you myself. Bring on de next one, clerk.


CLERK
Jemima Flap-Cakes, charged with illegal possession and sale of alcoholic
liquors.


JUDGE
                             (She is a fat, black, belligerent
                             looking woman. JUDGE looks coldly at
                             her.)
Well, you heard whut he said. Is you guilty or unguilty? And I'm tellin'
you right now dat you come up befo' _me_ it's just like youse in church.
You better have a strong determination, and you better tell a good
experience.


JEMIMA
                             (Arms akimbo)
Yes, I sold it and I'll sell it again.
                             (snaps fingers and shakes hips)
How does ole booze-selling mama talk?


JUDGE
Yes, five thousand dollars and ten years in jail.
                             (Snaps fingers and shakes hips)
How does ole heavy fining papa talk?
                             (She is led away, shouting and
                             weeping)


CLERK
De Otis Blunt, charged wid stealin' a mule.
                             (LAWYER arises and comes forward with
                             the prisoner)


LAWYER
You can't convict this man. I'm here to represent him.


JUDGE
Yo' mouf might spout lak a coffee pot but I got a lawyer
                             (Looks at other lawyer)
dat kin beat your segastuatin'.
                             (Looks admiring at girl)
How am I chewin' my dictionary and minglin' my alphabets?


LAWYER
Well, I kin try, can't I?


JUDGE
Oh yeah, you kin try, but I kin see right now where he's gointer git all
de time dat God ever made dat ain't been used already. From now on.
                             (To LAWYER)
Go 'head, and spread yo' lungs all over Georgy, but he's goin' to jail!
Mules _must_ be respected.


LAWYER
                             (Striking a pose at the bar)
Your Honor,
                             (Looks at the pretty girl)
Ladies and Gentlemen--


JUDGE
Never mind 'bout dat lady. You talk yo' chat to _me_.


LAWYER
This is a clear case of syllogism! Again I say syllogism. My client is
innocent because it was a dark night when they say he stole the mule and
that's against all laws of syllogism.
                             (JUDGE looks impressed and laughs)


JUDGE
Dat ole fool do know somethin' 'bout law.


LAWYER
When George Washington was pleading de case of Marbury vs. Madison, what
did _he_ say? What _did_ he say? Scintillate, scintillate, Globule
orific. Fain would I fathom thy nature's specific. Loftily poised in
ether capacious, strongly resembling a gem carbonacious. What did
Abraham Lincoln say about mule-stealing? When torrid Phoebut refuses his
presence and ceases to lamp with fierce incandescence, then you illumine
the regions supernal, scintillate, scintillate, semper noctornal.
Syllogism, again I say syllogism.
                             (He takes his seat amid applause)


JUDGE
Man, youse a pleadin' fool. You knows yo' rules and by-laws.


OTHER LAWYER
Let me show my glory. Let me spread my habeas corpus.


JUDGE
'Tain't no use. Dis lawyer done convinced me.


OTHER LAWYER
But, lemme parade my material--


JUDGE
Parade yo' material anywhere you wants to exceptin' befo' me. Dis lil
girl wants to go home and I'm goin' with her and enjoy de consequences.
Court's adjourned.


_CURTAIN_







*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/pglaf.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://www.gutenberg.net/about/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit:
http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
